= {Adauth}[http://adauth.arcath.net/]

Easy to use Active Directory Authentication for Rails.

== Install

Add the Adauth gem to your Gemfile:

    gem 'adauth'

and run a bundle install

== Usage

Create an initializer in _config/initilaizers_ called adauth.rb and place this code in it:

    Adauth.configure do |c|
        c.domain = "example.com" #The domain name used on your network e.g. example.com or example.local
        c.server = "127.0.0.1" #The IP of any DC on your network
        c.base = "dc=example, dc=com" #the base for your users.
    end

c.port can also be used but defaults to 389 which is the default for AD/LDAP. For a full list of options see {Configuration}[...] on the wiki.

Thats enough to very basically run Adauth, and if you prefer complete control over how your authentication is handled you can use this method:

    Adauth.authenticate(username, password)

Which has 2 possible return values nil if the users details are wrong or an instance of Adauth::User if the details are correct.

Adauth provides generators and helper methods for getting your application up and running.

== Developing

Obviously to test the AD functionality Adauth requires a working domain and a user to try logging in with. If you try running the tests without first creating the test_data.yml file then they will fail with this error:

    Failure/Error: @yaml = YAML::load(File.open('spec/test_data.yml'))

You need to create a yaml file that looks like this:

    domain:
      domain: example.com
      server: 127.0.0.1
      port: 389
      base: "dc=example, dc=com"
      pass_allowed_groups:
        - group
      fail_allowed_groups:
        - no_group

    user:
      login: username
      password: password
      group: group

The domain portion of this file is pretty self explanatory, they are the same as the code above for creating a domain connection. ALL options need to be set here.

The pass and fail allowed groups need to be an array with pass containing a group that the test user is a member of and fail containing a group that the test user isn't a member of. (The fail group doesn't have to exist)

The user is a user capable of logging into the domain, you can use your account here or any account on the domain. The group attribute needs to be set to a group that you are a member of so that the tests can make sure that the correct groups are picked up from AD.

Don't worry about this file making it into a pull request, it is in the .gitignore file so unless you remove it from there it wont be comitted.

If you make any additions/changes please add some tests for them.
